All right.
So in the previous lesson, we introduced the concept of computed properties in view.
And my next question for you is how can we utilize that concept of computed properties here in our action
button?
Well, if you take a look at line number two, you'll notice that what we're providing to our class
attribute, which we are binding to using V bind, is a plain JavaScript object.
And of course this syntax is valid, but I think it'd be a little bit better to move this logic into
our view configuration object after all.
At the heart of this, this is a piece of JavaScript.
It's not a piece of HTML view.
Of course knows how to process this, but this is some bit of business logic.
It specifies which thing, which class should be applied based on a property called primary.
So if we can move this into our script sections and somehow this would become a little bit cleaner and
separate our concerns a little bit more, we would have as much HTML as we can within our template and
as much JavaScript as we can within our script tag.
Now again, for something like this, this is a pretty small and probably even contrived example, but
let's stick with that.
Let's let's imagine in a much larger app where we have much bigger template for a component, we generally
want to keep as much JavaScript out of it as possible because it makes it more readable.
And we don't have to hunt around for where our JavaScript lives.
You know, if part of our JavaScript lives in our view configuration object and part of it lives in
our HTML template and there's a lot of lines there, we have to go back and forth to figure out these
things.
So the more that we can isolate and put things where they belong in their respective boxes, generally
the code will be easier to read.
So this is a very simple example.
Let's stick with it.
Our goal is to move this JavaScript object into our view configuration object somehow.
So is this a piece of data?
And I would argue it is.
It's something that the component needs to function properly, but it really is a computed property.
It is a JavaScript object that is being generated, but it is a derived object that is dependent on
the value of the primary key.
Now, if you have a sharp eye, you might look and say, well, isn't this object right here basically
the same odd because we have right here.
And the answer is yes.
Right now it is.
But you can imagine that if our data object expands, like if it has five or six different properties
and some of them deal with six styles and some of them don't, then it will no longer hold true.
So the fact of whether or not the primary class should be applied, which is this Boolean value of primary,
is to me a different piece of data than the the the derived JavaScript object that specifies what this
button should have in as far as classes.
So if you imagine we have, for example, a property, A and B here in a moment or two, then we simply
cannot provide this data object anymore because it will no longer function, which proves that this
object is a separate piece of information.
However, it is a piece of information that is dependent on at least this primary property right here.
So I propose what we do is that we create a computed property to return this JavaScript object.
All right, so right below data, I'm going to add my computed keyword, just like in the previous lesson.
And this again is going to be a JavaScript object where we provide our computed methods, but our computed
methods will work just like our data properties.
We can use them right in our template and the name of my method here, I'm just going to choose button
class.
I think that's an appropriate name for what we are trying to represent.
And right here we're going to return the JavaScript object that we want to add right in here and bind
with our back.
So what do we want?
We want the exact same properties as we have here.
We want a primary property and that is going to be a boolean value.
True, if we should apply the primary class and false if we should not.
Although it's important to note that in our computed property, our view component has no clue that
we're going to use button class up here.
So from Vue's perspective, it's just a plain JavaScript object with a primary key and a boolean value,
right?
So where is this primary value going to be coming from?
It is going to be coming from our primary property right here on data so we can access those data properties
using the this keyword.
So this DOT primary will get us that reference.
All right.
So now we've created a computed property that returns a JavaScript object.
So now right here, we can go ahead and replace the syntax with a reference to our computed property,
and we can reference it directly in line, just like our data property.
So right here I'm just going to write button class.
And I think this design is a little bit cleaner because now a reader will assume there's some kind of
combination of classes or a single class represented by button class.
They can look into the view configuration object and see the actual JavaScript that comprises that that
object right here.
All right.
So I know that these two objects look very similar to each other.
But hopefully, as we continue to develop our action button component in later lessons, you're going
to see how keeping them separate is actually going to be advantageous.
So to provide a summary of everything we learned here, there are to me two distinct pieces of information.
One is an actual primary property which is independent, which is keeping track of whether or not the
primary class should or should not be applied.
So given the fact that it's toggling, given the fact that it's changing over time, it is a piece of
data.
Right.
And makes sense to put here because it's something that is going to differ from time to time.
And in comparison, the JavaScript object that we are going to provide to our class attribute right
here and bind to using the view by directive.
This JavaScript object is dependent on this primary piece of data.
It's not a boolean right here.
It is an object that is dependent on the primary piece of data right here.
This JavaScript object is something that is derived so that whenever the value of this data property
changes, for example, to false, we want this object to be reevaluated, which in turn will replace
what we have right here but in class and render a different button on the screen.
We are setting up that architecture to have the pieces of data that that track change, as well as the
pieces of data that generate JavaScript objects that are reflective of that change for the purposes
of our HTML and CSF.
There's a little bit of a separation here.
It might be hard to see, but it should hopefully make more sense as we continue to add other types
of styles to this button.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.